>> Kyle Simpson: Quick
note on composition,
this is a mathematical concept, but
there is a concept called associativity.
Associativity is a mathematical concept.
If I said one plus two plus three,
the plus operator is associative and
that means that the way that I group
these, if I did one plus two and
then did plus three, I'd end up with six.
If I did two plus three first and
then added one, I'd also end up with six.
So whatever order that I group them in,
it doesn't matter,
I get the same result, right?
That's a characteristic of math,
of certain math operations,
is that they are associative.
Well, the reason we bring this up is
because composition is also associative.
Which means, if I have a list of
functions that need to be composed,
I can compose them in any grouping.
And I'm gonna still get
the same end result.
So here I have a composed two utility.
This one can only handle two at a time.
It doesn't handle three or 20,
it just handles two, okay?
So if I grouped minus two and
triple together and then composed that
composition with increment, we get
the same thing as if I compose triple and
increment and then compose that with
minus two, so let me show you that code.
So I am going to say compose two
of minus and triple, minus 2 and
triple, that's line 12.
That composition is
composed with increment.
So we still have the same right to left
ordering, we're still gonna do increment,
triple minus two.
The ordering is still gonna be
increment triple and minus two.
That's what f is a composition of.
Then I have p here, which does
compose two with triple and increment.
And then that is composed with minus.
Still the same order, increment,
triple, and minus two.
The f and
the p functions look different, but
they have the same result because
composition is associative.
That's actually super useful to us,
because it means that we can
actually do currying and
partial application on our compositions.
You don't have to know all the functions
that are going to participate in
a composition all up front.
You could curry the compose utility and
provide two or three of them now, and
then take that result and
compose it with something else later, and
take that result and
compose it with something else later.
And what are you doing?
You're creating a more
specialized function every time.
Because we're using currying to
make a more specialized function.
So the associativity property of
composition sounds sort of a nuance but
it's actually really critical
to making composition so useful.